DRAFT: CDK with FEP components doc (#707)
0xPolygon/polygon-docs: docs/cdk/releases/stack-components.md

The latest CDK release has two modes:

1. The CDK rollup/validium mode with full execution proofs is the first mode for release.
2. The CDK sovereign chain mode with pessimistic proofs, and no full execution proofs, is coming shortly after.

This document details the full stack components for the first mode of release: CDK with full execution proofs.

## CDK stack with full execution proofs (FEP)

In the CDK with full execution proofs release, any zkEVM components can be considered as part of a CDK stack in rollup mode. 

The following table lists the components and where you can find them for CDK rollup and validium stacks. You will notice only small differences in the component makeup of the two stacks; differences which are now mostly use case specific.

> | Component | CDK rollup (FEP) | CDK validium (FEP) | Notes |

Reviewer: IMO this table is unnecessary, all rows are the same except for the DA layer, forcing the reader to check point by point instead of simply highlighting the single difference between them that is the DAC.

Also regarding the components list:

I think it's not appropiate to include Blockscout in this list, because it's not a core CDK component, they can use the blockexplorer they want, it's not forced to use blockscout.

Also the Datastreamer is not a component that the user will run, this can cause confusion. 

Datastreamer is just another library that the cdk-node use, similar to others that we don't mention, better to avoid it.

Also let's confirm about the bridge service.

Author: Hi @vcastellm thanks for the feedback.. yes, the repos are mostly the same now. I think the purpose of this doc is to understand the components which make up the stack and this table directs people to where the code for each component of the stack resides.

Let's see what the team says.

Author: updated

Author: https://docs-dev.polygon.technology/1778/cdk/releases/stack-components/

- Aggregator: For facilitating proving and verification, fetching and providing batch data and witness to the Prover.
- Prover: A complex cryptographic tool capable of producing ZK-proofs of hundreds of batches, and aggregating these into a single ZK-proof which is published as the validity proof.
- Data streamer: A library developed to serve raw block data to nodes that need to maintain an up-to-date L2 state, irrespective of the required amount of data.
- DAC: The Data Availability Committee, specifically for the validium case, is a set of *trusted actors* who keep custody of all transaction data, including monitoring and validating hash values the sequencer sender proposes to publish on L1.
- Contracts: Various smart contracts deployed on L1 for the full implementation and complete functionality of the Polygon zkEVM protocol
    - Here's the list: `PolygonRollupManager`, `PolygonZkEVMBridgeV2`, `PolygonZkEVMGlobalExitRootV2`, `FflonkVerifier`, `PolygonZkEVMDeployer`, and `PolygonZkEVMTimelock`.

> - Bridge service: A backend service, written in Go, for enabling clients like the [web UI](https://github.com/0xPolygonHermez/zkevm-bridge-ui) to interact with the [bridge smart contract](https://github.com/0xPolygonHermez/zkevm-contracts) by providing Merkleproofs.

Reviewer 2: The bridge service of Portal, AFAIK is not written in Go

Author: Removing.

Author: Made some updates @joanestebanr https://docs-dev.polygon.technology/1778/cdk/releases/stack-components/

> Developers can use the CDK rollup/validium mode, or simply _CDK FEP_, to configure CDK chains that run the Polygon zkEVM protocol.

Reviewer 3: This line seems to jam a lot in - the confusion is coming from rollup/validium being here but not being defined.  Are they defined elsewhere?  This sentence may be better as, "Developers can use CDK to configure chains that run the Polygon zkEVM protocol in either rollup or validium mode.  We refer to these chains, in either mode as CDK FEP."

> Developers can use the CDK rollup/validium mode, or simply _CDK FEP_, to configure CDK chains that run the Polygon zkEVM protocol.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
Developers can use CDK to configure chains that run the Polygon zkEVM protocol in either rollup or validium mode. We refer to these chains, in either mode, as a CDK FEP.
```

- Aggregator: For facilitating proving and verification, fetching and providing batch data and witness to the prover.
- Transaction pool manager: For storing transactions submitted by users.
- Prover: A complex cryptographic tool capable of producing ZK-proofs of hundreds of batches, and aggregating these into a single ZK-proof which is published as the validity proof.
- Bridge service: A backend service for enabling clients like the [web UI](https://github.com/0xPolygonHermez/zkevm-bridge-ui) to interact with the [bridge smart contract](https://github.com/0xPolygonHermez/zkevm-contracts) by providing Merkle proofs.
- Bridge UI: The Polygon bridge portal which abstracts away the backend operations involved in bridge deposits and withdrawals.
- Blockscout: An application that allows to view, confirm, and inspect transactions on EVM chains, optimistic rollups and zk rollups. EVM chains include the POA Network, Gnosis Chain, Ethereum Classic and other Ethereum testnets, private networks and side chains. Users may opt to use a different explorer service.

> 

Reviewer 4: Approving this PR yet with the acknowledgement of PR#2116 … which effects changes outlined below:

- Remove the definition of FEP from the CDK Overview and add it as is to the “CDK FEP components” doc 
- Remove the mention of the CDK sovereign mode from the CDK FEP components doc (per Gabe's recommendation).
- Detach the “Blockscout” from the list of components (Victor's recommendation). 

The idea here is to keep the same CDK overview for both FEPs and PPs, 
… but change the heading of “Stack components” to “CDK FEP”.  
And thus in the future the sidebar will look like this:

- CDK
    - Overview
- Releases 
    - CDK FEP 
    - CDK PP 
    - Version compatibility matrix 
- Get started
    - …
